hi today I want to make an EMP or
electromagnetic pulse device and that's
why I bought one of these super high
voltage power generator modules let's
give it a try and see how it works
Wow
swear to God if one of these arcs
touches me I'll delete this channel
let's start with simple stuff here I
have a 5 watt EMP device if you have
photosensitive epilepsy or PS II please
look away now until I say done okay done
any light is electromagnetic waves and I
was pulsing it which would cause visual
interference with the brain of sensitive
people causing seizure I hope you looked
away if you are sensitive but the EMP
you guys are thinking about is at much
much lower frequency than the visible
light and it interferes with electronics
and sometimes damages them
electromagnetic waves are present
everywhere let me do a demo
I designed a circuit the waves go
through a diode and get rectified into a
DC voltage that is held by the input
capacitance of a MOSFET transistor and
that voltage turns it on when it's on it
switches a relay coil to ground the
capacitor is there to make sure if the
MOSFET switch shatters on and off the
coil holds its voltage for some time and
when the relay switches on it can turn
on a light from AC okay I put the
circuit together and now you can clearly
hear the relay clicking what I charge
and discharge the input capacitance of
the MOSFET by touching the positive and
negative lines through my body and now
the relay can turn on and I - I
accidentally connected the capacitor to
the output of the relay I notice the
main reason most our circuits don't work
is because of such simple miss
connections that no matter how long and
hard you look at them you don't see them
seems I don't need the capacitor anyway
but for the love of God why would I have
to
work with 120 volt AC when I can do the
same thing with this stupid LED here we
are when I touch the input the LED
doesn't turn on unless I bring my hand
close to some extension cord see this is
an example of electromagnetic
interference in this case it's only
electric not magnetic now you might be
curious why my body transfers some noise
well congratulations you're curious so
head on to curiosity's stream to quench
your curiosity because they are
sponsoring this video I started watching
their library of documentaries and man
the quality the amount of work that goes
into those videos and the content they
have some of the best knowledge and
science documentaries in fact over 2400
of them you must see them for yourselves
so use my link curiosity stream comm /
electro boom and promo code electro ball
at checkout to get a full month of free
access to all of them after which it's
just three dollars a month hurry up
before they realize they're selling it
for cheap in any case the noise that's
coming from my body that triggers the
circuit is coupled over my body by
capacitive coupling in fact just sitting
at home your body picks up the power
line voltage you can detect on a scope
it can't really deliver power though
with my tiny circuit if I rub my foot on
the carpet I generate enough static to
turn it on okay I'll make an EMP device
but before that let me tell you how it
actually affects the circuits it's in
two ways Electric magnetic or both after
further investigation I realized that
I've been sweating like a pig it was
quite hard and I had to close the doors
and windows to avoid noise maybe I
should get an air conditioner see when
two conductors fall in love I mean when
they come to close without touching a
capacitance is formed between them so if
the voltage of one Rises compared to the
other one charges flow into one that in
return repel the same charges from the
other one so one conductor can affect
the other and that's how my hand as a
conductor was picking up voltage from
the extension cord the cord is not
powering anything but a tiny AC energy
is transferred through my body and my
body voltage rises high enough to
trigger the circuit this is electric
interference the other way is mag
see when you have a length of wire
running close to another wire an AC
current is running through one of them
magnetic fields are created around both
of them that in return generates current
in the other wire like here I shorted
the input of my circuit with a coil to
ground so now touching the input the
circuit doesn't turn on anymore what if
I use my disposable camera flash and
charge the flash capacitor to 300 volt
and short the capacitor with a loop of
wire around the coil see the circuit
triggers I think I killed when must fit
with a high voltage spike always protect
the gate of your transistor against high
voltage and of course these two wires
being so close to each other a
capacitance is also formed between them
and so an AC voltage in one is coupled
to the other one and we would have both
magnetic and electric interference now
higher the frequency the worse is the
interference because the impedance of a
capacitor is smaller at higher
frequencies resulting in higher AC
current to run through and also the
change of magnetic flux is faster
resulting in a stronger electro-motive
force both resulting in a stronger
interference when frequency becomes high
enough the electric and magnetic fields
will radiate like light much further as
electromagnetic waves and can affect the
devices further away in such case the
interference can create different
voltages and currents across the circuit
so like when you expect a positive pulse
the noise can create a negative pulse
that can be interpreted wrong and the
whole system will glitch and crash
here's an example I'm measuring a square
wave from my function generator now if I
run this stupid loud thingy what the
wavelength of the interfering
electromagnetic wave must be comparable
to the length of your system because if
your circuit is too small compared to
the wavelength then it rides on a
relatively flat portion of the wave
length and is not affected but if the
circuit is too large or the frequency is
high then you'll have positive
interference on one side and negative
on the other side and this creates
strong noises over the system so it's
harder to interfere with smaller
circuits and higher frequencies
interfere with those it is like when
you're driving in a wavy Road and the
waves are spread apart nothing happens
but when the bumps get closer to each
other then the front of the car Falls
when the back hits the bump I could keep
shaking and the car is under a lot of
stress you might want to chill mate it's
already quite hot now what is P in EMP
who cares about a pulse why don't we
just do it continuously so not only we
beat it down we keep it down because in
most cases a device malfunctions as long
as there is interference and as soon as
it's removed it usually comes back to
life like my cell phone touchscreen
works fine until I turn on my Tesla coil
and then it starts malfunctioning and
doesn't work anymore until the hell is
this
when I turn off the Tesla coil it starts
working normally so a continuous
interference can be pretty damaging I
can imagine it's something military
could use like using a dish antenna
sending high-power focused interference
towards an airplane or a boat like until
all their systems crash there are two
good reasons to create a pulse rather
than a continuous wave like a 1
gigahertz frequency first is that it
takes massive amounts of energy to
create high-energy electromagnetic waves
to interfere military could pull it off
but in most cases the amount of
available energy is limited so rather
than chat slapping your opponent with
continues small power you store power
over a period of time and then release
all of it in one strong punch you can
repeat this cycle and send a train of
pulses with concentrated power in every
pulse for example my triple-a battery
can output around 1 amp continuously
what if instead I charge my super
capacitor then I can discharge it in one
shot and release hundreds of all right I
touch the ground with one hand and the
capacitor with the other anyway when you
short the capacitor you
release hundreds of herbs in one shot
and that creates a huge electromagnetic
pulse the second reason is that every
circuit is different and is sensitive to
a different frequency so sending one
single frequency or ten might not be
enough to interfere with every circuit
out there but with the pulse these
ideally sharp edges in theory contain
almost all the frequencies look at this
sine wave tone it generates only one
spike in a certain frequency in
frequency domain but if I change it to a
square wave it generates infinite
frequency spikes so a sharp pulse is
better maybe it's a good time to mention
that beside military use or controlled
lab experiments there is no real use for
an EMP device between regular people
beside damaging other people's
properties like the USB killer I talked
about before which is illegal the
information I'm providing here is still
essential to design a solid product
that's not affected by the environmental
noise there are tons of radiations we
are making by our electronics and we
need to make sure what we design works
so this thing that creates repetitive
high-power pulses is a great source of
interference same as the Tesla coil all
you need to do is to make an antenna to
radiate EMP something like this loop of
wire so here we are if I bring the loop
over my meter and run it
[Music]
number what fortunately it recovers as
soon as I turn it off the [ __ ] is this
it's damaged already this is the second
meter I destroyed but fortunately thanks
to my patreon support I can afford to
cover my failures so to thank them I'll
buy them five more of those scope meter
thingies so this is how in general and
EMP device is made I see some people
increase the number of turns in the loop
to increase the magnetic fields coming
out of it but that increases the
inductance and so the impedance of the
loop and that blocks the high-speed
current through the wire and makes it
weaker and sometimes people add a
capacitor to the mix like this which is
fine it creates a very high voltage here
and Tunes the frequency very accurately
in fact this is one of the ways they
drive the primary of a Tesla coil at
resonance frequency in fact if you don't
have access to the expensive lab
equipment but know the weakness of your
circuit this is a very good way to
create that exact frequency and target
your circuit and improve it know that we
know how to create interfering
electromagnetic noise as a designer how
can you improve your circuit against
noise see any circuit can emit
electromagnetic noise by radiation or
conduction through the wire or can be
affected through radiation or conduction
let's start with reducing emissions if
you have high frequency noise running
through a line into a circuit always
make sure that the return line closing
the circuit runs right beside the first
line as a single wire or a copper plate
this way the magnetic fields created by
the first line are canceled by the equal
fields from the second line they radiate
much less and don't affect the
surrounding circuits avoid running your
signal lines in a loop they radiate
noise and absorb noise better that way
the ideal connection is a straight line
run your pulses with slow edges rather
than fast
edges to avoid emitting high frequency
harmonics if possible avoid sharp edges
in your wires or PCB traces for
high-frequency signals those corners are
and always place proper filtering on
your lines going in and out of the
system inhale
with both emissions and immunity and to
increase your circuit immunity to noise
don't place your weak lines close to the
noisy lines place a ground plate between
them to absorb the noise run your
important signals are strong meaning
that the transmitter must have a small
output impedance while avoiding sharp
signal edges place filtering capacitors
on your weaker lines to filter
high-frequency noise well without
filtering your signal and in general
keep your wires short oh and shield
shield everything with ground if you can
that is these are just a few tips in the
endless black art of radiated and
conducted emissions and immunity if
you're curious for more then head on to
curiosity stream well I mean they don't
have anything on electromagnetic noise
yet but there are a top source of
knowledge beautifully presented you
might be curious about the secrets of
quantum physics or want to learn about
the ancient earth or how we hack the
moon by Apollo missions or more from
science nature history technologies
society and lifestyle they are the
world's first streaming service with
great nonfiction knowledge and science
documentaries including exclusive
originals made by some of the world's
best filmmakers featuring some of the
world's greatest scientists available on
all sort of platforms so definitely go
to curiosity stream dot-com / electro
boom and get unlimited access to this
treasure box and use promo code electro
moon during the sign off and your
membership will be free for the first 31
days and trust me you will enjoy them
and thanks for watching to the end